okay let's talk about the new 2020 ipad
air
this is a device that's had a pretty
significant update this year they've
changed the exterior of the device it
looks a lot more like the
existing ipad pro lineup they've changed
the interior they've added
obviously like the new chipset but they
also added some features that have never
existed
on any ipads before so let's just dive
into this thing i'm gonna go into the
aesthetics first because
that's probably one of its most
interesting draws like if you're coming
into the ipad world and you're looking
to purchase one one of the reasons why
you might be interested in this one one
of the big reasons is because it looks
nice this looks a lot nicer than a
regular
ipad right because of the thinner bezels
the more modern design language
it is a really nice looking machine
really similar to the 11 inch ipad pro
it's got the same shape
same size the bezels are a little
thicker on the ipad air so it's got a
10.9 inch screen instead of an 11 inch
screen
but it's got the same holes for the
speakers on the sides and the same smart
connection
on the back so if you have accessories
that worked for the 2018
and 2020 ipad pro the 11 inch one
they'll very likely work
for this model as well the new ipad air
so i'm gonna dive into the screen first
because i think that's the
most important feature to me this new
screen has true tone
and good brightness but it is a 60 hertz
display
i've talked about 120 hertz and just
high refresh displays in my phone
reviews and i have a very particular
kind of mindset about that stuff like
when it comes to phones i feel like
high refresh screens are nice but
they're not really game changing
when it comes to tablets it's a slightly
different story so it depends on what
you're doing
but i really feel like if you are
someone who's using a
pen like the apple pencil for the input
if you're drawing or writing
having a high refresh screen makes a
significant difference and that was
something that i noticed right away when
it came off of
the ipad pro like the tablet that i'm
using the most of over the past little
while
is a 2018 ipad pro with a 120 hertz
display
and coming on to this the 60 hertz
display on the ipad air
is a noticeable step down for the apple
pencil experience now i'm not a digital
illustrator or an artist of any sort
but i can tell that there's some kind of
latency or lag that
doesn't feel as natural as the 120hz
display on the ipad pros
then again this is a significantly more
expensive machine the ipad pros
i would say that if you're someone who
uses the pencil
frequently i would lean more towards the
ipad pro even older models just because
of that faster refresh screen it makes a
big difference
when it comes to the apple pencil input
there's also the advantage you get with
games right some games in the app store
allow you to play with high refresh
rates i play a game called dead cells
and it's this
very reaction based game where you kind
of have to press buttons based on what's
happening on the screen
really quickly and i do find that i
perform better when i'm playing
on the ipad pro it's just a smoother and
more visually fluid experience
and it doesn't just apply to action
games there's a whole bunch of kind of
chill and relaxing titles as well
on the app store that can benefit from
high refresh screens as well
but the 60 hertz panel on the ipad air
will handle
everything else just as well it's just
slightly smaller
than the 11 inch ipad pro now i want to
move on to the
new feature this year it's the presence
of a touch
sensitive power button it's got touch id
baked right into
the power button on the device now this
implementation
of touch id took me a little bit of time
to get used to number one the location
is different right my muscle memory has
always just been going to the bottom or
just depend on face id to open up my
ipads but you got to just make an effort
to go up there
normally with an encased ipad the moment
you open it because of the magnet system
it automatically turns on you don't have
to physically press most ipads to
power up but now you got to make that
that mental like no just like you got to
hit that
even if you have a case that
automatically turns the device on
secondly it's not a super fast
touch id it's slower than i would have
expected coming from such a fast
processor
like the a14 is a beast but there is a
bit of lag when you're trying to unlock
the device
i do prefer unlocking an ipad with face
id over touch
id okay under the speakers this has a
two speaker setup which honestly sounds
almost identical to the quad speaker
setup from the ipad pros
the bass there is stronger and the
system gets a little bit louder overall
but
the double speaker on the new ipad air
is just so much better than anything
they've had in the past
with regular ipads or ipad airs because
now
there's speakers on each side there's
one on the left one on the right so the
audio experience is so much more
complete than it has been in the past
now in terms of performance
the a14 in the ipad air is really fast
like
impressively so in many cases it matches
if not
beats the current ipad pro chip like the
a12z
that being said there is a ram
difference there's four gigs of ram
in the ipad air six gigs on the ipad pro
but when it came to my real world usage
i found them very similar like i would
have thought that a four gig machine
running two concurrent apps with the
split screen would just be
sluggish but it really wasn't i do think
that in time because
apple's software updates are sometimes
limited by ram
that the six gig ipad pro will be able
to go a little bit further
into the future now i want to move on to
the discussion
of a purchase decision so should you buy
a new ipad air
so this machine the 2020 ipad air has a
few things that
really separate it from the base model
ipad right
it has access to the second gen apple
pencil
it has access to the magic keyboard like
a really good keyboard arguably the best
keyboard that exists
for tablets it has access to usbc
charging it has access to a bunch of
really nice colors like let's be real
here
those colors are going to be very
powerful draw for people to spend a
little bit more money to get
an ipad air instead of a regular ipad
now the question you should ask yourself
if you're interested
in a device like this and you're like
should i get the ipad air should just go
with the
kind of basic ipad it's really about
usage right
if you're going to be using a pencil
frequently or you're gonna be typing
on your device on your ipad frequently
then i would go for this
because these two alone like this second
gen apple pencil is so much better than
the first gen
the access to this magic keyboard is
something that is i mean i've reviewed
this before
previously but it's a really good typing
experience it rivals
it rivals laptops legitimately it's
actually better than a lot of windows
laptops but
it's a really good keyword and you don't
have access to this magic keyboard
unless you have
an ipad air like the new ipad air or the
much more expensive ipad pro
now there's another question of should
you go for the ipad air
or the ipad pro and this is a big jump
up unless you can score a 2018 model if
you can
somehow luck out and get a two-year-old
model that's refurbed or whatever
i think the best value is 2018 ipad pro
but
if you have to buy a new 2020 ipad pro
and you're designing between the two
it really comes down to the pen like the
120 hertz
screen can you take advantage of that
pencil and that refresh rate
of the apple pencil with that screen and
if you can and you want it for your
workflow
i'd suggest an ipad pro because the 60hz
screen on this
there is a limitation but there you have
it that's my review of the
2020 ipad air okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs if you liked it subs
if you loved it
see you guys next time
[Music]
you